version 2.0.3
--------------
Thanks to "Gandalf" on the historical forum for having reported bug #20

version 2.0.2
--------------
Thanks to Ruslan Hristov for reporting bug #18 (Sourceforge bug 850279),
and thanks to Joshua Neal for reporting bug #19 (Sourceforge bug 851320).

version 2.0.1
--------------
Thanks to David Baldwin for reporting bug #17 (Sourceforge bug 837735).

version 2.0.0
--------------
Thanks to Jules for its suggestion about altern memory allocation when a lot of
small blocks are asked and are only released at the end of the program, this is
the base of the "special allocation". Thanks to Adam Sherman for presenting me
Parchive. Thanks to Johnathan Burchill (author of kdar) for his feedback about
the libdar API, and help in fixing bugs in pre-release 1, and in release 1.3.0
bug #15. Thanks to Sergei Suyev for feedback. Thanks to Grzegorz Adam 
Hankiewicz for its mini-howto. Thanks to Peter Kupec for having found and 
reported bug #16, and for his attention to documentation coherence, and his 
intensive testing.

version 1.3.0
--------------
Thanks to David Rose for having found, identified an proposed a patch for
bug #12. Memory leakages in general are difficult to find, thus
congratulations ! Thanks to Oliver Brendel for the great help and patience
to my many asked tests to solve the bug #13, bug I could not reproduce. Thanks
to John Reynolds for feedback.

Thanks also to Rgbtxus for the --flat option need expression. Thanks to Sergio
Borghese for reporting bug #11. Nicola Larosa for his suggestions about UPX
(which will be considered for dar 2.x.x series), Dietrich Rothe for the
--nodump feature request, and many others for feedback and encouragements.

version 1.2.1
---------------
Thanks to Axel Kohlmeyer for his patch about RPMS, Dietrich Rothe for its
patch on compression level, Brian May for his patches to comply with Debian
distro, Ulrich Hagen D.A.M Revok, Jahn Wells, Juhana Sadeharju, for their
feedback and John Little for compiling the FAQ and man pages on the web.

version 1.2.0
---------------
Thanks to Chris Martin, Jerome Zago, Tim Doerzbacher, Sebastien Robart,
Kurt Palmer, Bernd Storsberg, Egor Cheshkov, Richard Bratt for feedback
and suggestions.

I must add a special Thanks to Chris Martin who realized a simple and
efficient tool that generates the usage C++ code from files written in XML
syntax, making automatic word wrapping and indentation. This power tool
named "dar-help" is licensed as part of DAR, but has been totally designed
and written by Chris.


version 1.1.0
---------------

Thanks to Moritz Franosch for intensive testing, for finding several bugs and
proposing patches, to John Little for testing dar and for providing a forum
area, to Ulrich Hagen, Francois Botha, Tobias Jahn for feedback, and to
Andreas Gruenbacher for its Extended Attributes software, and its useful
answers to my questions. Thanks to the many other people that just encouraged
me by their remarks and compliments.

